README.md, before:

# opencv-server

This is an OpenCV HTTP mjpeg server, suitable for viewing RTSP streams in a (supported) browser.

## Getting started:

> Optional
>
> ```sh
> python3 -m venv .venv
> ```

```sh
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

```sh
VIDEO_URL="webcam://0" python3 main.py
```

> alternatively
>
> ```sh
> export "FLASK_APP=main.py"
> export "VIDEO_URL=http://webcam.rhein-taunus-krematorium.de/mjpg/video.mjpg"
>
> python3 -m flask run
> ```

### Docker

You'll have to enable BuildKit to build the container

```sh
export DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1
```

Build

```sh
docker compose build
```

Run

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

> Alternatively, with the docker cli
>
> Build
>
> ```sh
> docker build                                  \
>     -t localhost.local/opencv-server:local    \
>     --file=docker/Dockerfile                  \
>     ${GIT_ROOT:-.}
> ```
>
> Run
>
> ```sh
> docker run --rm -it -p 127.0.0.1:5000:5000                                    \
>     -e "VIDEO_URL=http://webcam.rhein-taunus-krematorium.de/mjpg/video.mjpg"  \
>     --name opencv-server                                                      \
>     localhost.local/opencv-server:local                                    
> ```

## Environment Variables

- `DEBUG`: Run with debug messages (set to `True` | `yes` | `y` | `1` *case insensitive* to activate. default = `False`)
- `LOG_FILE`: File to log to (default = `None`)
- `MIRROR_IMAGE`: Mirror image output (set to `True` | `yes` | `y` | `1` *case insensitive* to activate. default = `False`)
- `FLASK_RUN_HOST`: Flask web server host (default = `127.0.0.1`)
- `FLASK_RUN_PORT`: Flask web server port, (default = `5000`)
- `VIDEO_URL`: URL to video (default = `webcam://0`)

## Development

Please see the file [docs/DEVELOPMENT.md](docs/DEVELOPMENT.md)

## Notes

As OpenCV is not threadsafe and I don't want to increase the complexity of the project, I have limited the capabilities to 1 viewer per instance, if 2 (or more) try to view at the same time, the 2nd will have to wait until the first disconnects

Commit message:

Feat/packaging (#9)
* first successful install

* renamed the project in all the files

* update the README

* Update docs/DEVELOPMENT.md
> Co-authored-by: Patryk Laurent <patryk.laurent@scenera.net>

README.md, after:

# MJPEGazer

This is an OpenCV HTTP MJPEG server, among others, suitable for viewing RTSP streams in a [(supported)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motion_JPEG#Applications) browser.

## License

Please see the [LICENSE](./LICENSE)

## Getting started

### Natively

> Optional, create a venv.
>
> ```sh
> python3 -m venv .venv
> ```

Install the package.

```sh
python3 -m pip install "."
```

Run the basic implementation.

```sh
export "VIDEO_URL=http://webcam.rhein-taunus-krematorium.de/mjpg/video.mjpg"

python3 main.py
```

> alternatively
>
> ```sh
> export "FLASK_APP=main.py"
> export "VIDEO_URL=http://webcam.rhein-taunus-krematorium.de/mjpg/video.mjpg"
>
> python3 -m flask run
> ```

### Docker

You'll have to enable BuildKit to build the container

```sh
export DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1
```

Build

```sh
docker compose build
```

Run

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

> Alternatively, with the docker cli
>
> Build
>
> ```sh
> docker build                                  \
>     -t localhost.local/mjpegazer:latest       \
>     --file=docker/Dockerfile                  \
>     ${GIT_ROOT:-.}
> ```
>
> Run
>
> ```sh
> docker run --rm -it -p 127.0.0.1:5000:5000                                    \
>     -e "VIDEO_URL=http://webcam.rhein-taunus-krematorium.de/mjpg/video.mjpg"  \
>     --name MJPEGazer                                                          \
>     localhost.local/mjpegazer:latest                                    
> ```

## Environment Variables

- `DEBUG`: Run with debug messages (set to `True` | `yes` | `y` | `1` *case insensitive* to activate. default = `False`)
- `LOG_FILE`: File to log to (default = `None`)
- `MIRROR_IMAGE`: Mirror image output (set to `True` | `yes` | `y` | `1` *case insensitive* to activate. default = `False`)
- `FLASK_RUN_HOST`: Flask web server host (default = `127.0.0.1`)
- `FLASK_RUN_PORT`: Flask web server port, (default = `5000`)
- `VIDEO_URL`: URL to video (default = `webcam://0`)

## Development

Please see the file [docs/DEVELOPMENT.md](docs/DEVELOPMENT.md)
